This is how to optimize your PC for
gaming in just 10 minutes so you can get
the biggest performance boost in the
least amount of time. I've made several
highly rated optimization guides and
after doing these tweaks, you will get
better FPS, lower input delay, and a
faster feeling system overall. Let's
start with the essential Windows
optimizations. Begin by creating a
restore point by pressing your Windows
key, typing in create, and pressing
enter. If for some reason anything goes
wrong, you can use this restore point to
revert any changes you've made. Once
your restore point is created, press
your Windows key, type in game mode,
press enter, and turn on game mode. In
simple terms, it just makes it so that
less things run in the background. From
here, click on graphics, change default
graphics settings, and enable
optimizations for windowed games. In
DX10 and DX11 games, such as Fortnite,
this setting allows you to use windowed
full screen, but still get the same
input delay as exclusive full screen. If
you see hardware accelerated GPU
scheduling on here, I would also
recommend turning that on as it allows
you to basically offload more tasks from
your CPU to your GPU, which is best for
CPU intensive games like Fortnite where
the GPU isn't fully utilized. However,
you might not see a performance impact
in primarily GPU intensive games, and at
worst, it can cause system instability
and stutters. So, definitely try it on,
but turn it back off if you notice any
of the mentioned issues. Next, we're
going to disable core isolation. This
feature uses virtualizationbased
security which reduces gaming
performance by 5% on average. It's
definitely worth turning off and as long
as you have Windows Defender enabled and
don't download stupid on the
internet, you're good. To disable it,
press your Windows key again, type core,
and press enter. In here, you can
disable memory integrity by flicking
that switch. Next, we're going to
debloss for better performance. To do
this, we'll be using the newly updated
Chris Titus tech tool. I really like it
because you don't have to install
anything. And I use this tool after
every Windows feature update as they
will often reinstall the bloware you
previously removed. To run the script,
press the Windows key, type in
PowerShell, then click run Windows
PowerShell as administrator. Then simply
type or copy and paste the first line
from the description and press enter.
After a few seconds, a window like this
should pop up. Once this window opens
up, click on tweaks. you can safely
follow exactly what I'm doing as I run
these exact tweaks myself, but I still
recommend hovering your mouse over each
tweak and read their description so that
you know exactly what you're doing. In
the advanced tweaks caution section, you
can check off basically everything. But
for those of you who use Adobe websites
like Adobe Express, do not turn on Adobe
Network Block as it completely breaks
its functionality. As for set display to
performance, we're going to manually
adjust those settings later in this
video, so don't worry about it for now.
Once you're happy with your selection of
tweaks, click run tweaks. And after a
few minutes, this window will pop up
saying tweaks are finished, and you can
close everything off. Next, we're going
to change our power plan. Since power
plans can have a big impact on both
latency and frame rate. Press the
Windows key, type power, and hit enter
to open the power options. If you have a
mid to high-end PC, we're going to add
the ultimate performance power plan
because, at least for me, it
outperformed every other plan in nearly
every category. By default, the ultimate
plan doesn't show up. So to add it, open
command prompt, copy and paste the text
from the description and press enter.
Once you reopen the power options, it'll
show up in the additional plans and you
can select it. However, I'd recommend
running a few benchmarks while switching
between power plans to see what works
best for you. Now, we're going to just
go through every single Windows setting.
And unlike using the DBLO tool, you're
only ever going to need to do this once.
You can open your settings by pressing
Windows and I together. On the left,
click on system, then notifications.
Notifications themselves don't affect
your performance at all. But the
processes that manage them definitely
can. So just to avoid any of these
headaches, I would disable notifications
and enable do not disturb because who's
actually paying attention to their PC
notifications. Now click on
personalization on the left, then
dynamic lighting. Dynamic lighting is
basically a background app that manages
your RGB lighting that can cause
conflicts with other RGB software.
Definitely turn these two settings off.
Now click on apps, advanced app
settings, share across devices, and turn
that off. This setting used to be
involved in a terrible CPU usage bug
that would eat up tons of resources. And
even now, disabling the feature reduces
background processes and prevents your
activity from being shared across your
devices, which can help with security.
Then go back to apps and click on
startup apps. Disable anything you don't
need. Once you're done with that, click
on accessibility settings on the left.
Click on visual effects and disable both
transparency and animation effects. Even
though you don't see these effects in
game, it still very slightly impacts
your performance, so you might as well
disable them. Moving on to privacy and
security settings. Click on it, then
click on every subcategory from general
to activity history and disable all of
it for better privacy and security. As
usual, you can read the descriptions and
enable any setting as you see fit, but
personally, I have everything from these
five categories disabled. Moving on to
the search permissions. I would
recommend disabling everything as well,
apart from a safe search. The internet's
kind of crazy, so having it set to
moderate can help with your safety. And
finally, for the last section in the
settings, click on Windows update on the
left. Click on advanced options. And I'd
recommend disabling these top four
settings. Not just for performance, but
getting notifications for Windows
updates and having your PC update during
active hours is not fun. And the very
last thing we're going to do is go to
delivery optimization and uncheck allow
downloads from other devices. Leaving
this setting checked basically allows
you to download Windows updates off of
other people's computers and vice versa.
Disabling this reduces the risk of
sending or receiving update data from
unknown PCs. It's good for privacy, but
won't really affect your performance at
all. Next, we're going to disable some
advanced system settings. Press your
Windows key and type advanced, then
press enter. Under performance, click on
settings. You can select best
performance to get the best performance,
obviously, but I recommend enabling
these three settings near the bottom.
This mostly helps with system
responsiveness, but still makes your PC
use less resources while gaming as well.
Next, we're going to tackle some GPU
optimization, starting with Nvidia. If
you have an Nvidia graphics card, click
the arrow in the bottom right corner of
your screen and double click the Nvidia
logo to open the Nvidia control panel.
Some people still think these settings
don't affect performance, but in a lot
of games, they actually make a
noticeable difference, and it only takes
about 1 minute to change everything. So,
click on manage 3D settings at the top
left and then copy these exact settings.
If you want to apply them to a specific
game or see if they affect your game, go
to the program settings tab and select
your game files .exe from the drop down.
It'll show you which settings actually
do something for that title. For AMD
users, these GPU optimizations increased
my 1% lows and decrease both my RAM and
VRAM usage by 1 GB each. So, definitely
don't skip this part. Start by, of
course, opening up your AMD software.
Press the settings cog at the top right,
then click on preferences. In here, you
want to disable absolutely everything.
While you're at it, I would also disable
hotkeys because there are a lot and the
odds of you accidentally toggling
something you didn't mean to are very
high. Next, click on gaming. If you play
both single player and competitive
games, you might want to keep your
settings separate because some of these
settings do sacrifice a tiny bit of
visual quality for performance. I'm lazy
though, so I'm just going to go to the
graphics section instead to adjust for
every game and application on my PC. On
texture filtering quality, change it
from standard to performance to
prioritize performance over image
quality. Surface format optimization
gives you better FPS and lower VRAMm
usage. It's best to keep it enabled for
smoother gameplay. For tessellation
mode, we are going to override the
settings and set our maximum
tessellation level to off. Now for some
registry editor tweaks. And yeah, that's
23.7% better 1% lows, which you are
going to feel when you're actually
playing the game. So, open up the
registry editor by pressing your Windows
key and typing regedit. To get to the
correct folder, select the text above
and replace it with this line from the
description. Once you're here, double
click GPU priority and set that to
decimal 8. Priority should be set to
decimal 6. And both scheduling category
and SFIO priority should say high. Next
up is Win32 priority separation.
Changing this value helps significantly
with both application responsiveness and
frame rate. To get to the correct
folder, copy and paste the next line
from the description and press enter.
Now, most people, including me,
recommend setting this value to decimal
38 to fully prioritize the foreground
application over the background. This
one value has a sizable effect on
performance, so I recommend trying a few
different values and restarting your PC
each time to see what works best. The
next tweak is to disable network
throttling. Disabling network throttling
can help reduce network latency,
especially in games where every
millisecond matters. So, click up here
again and paste this path from the
description. By default, you might not
see network throttling index in this
folder. So, to fix that, simply
rightclick on the right side, click new,
then dword 32-bit value and name it
network throttling index. Then, double
click it and set the value to 8FS to
disable network throttling on your
system. And for the final registry
tweak, it's going to be in the exact
same folder we were just in called
system responsiveness. The default value
is 20 decimal, meaning Windows reserves
20% of CPU resources for background
tasks. Setting this to zero gives your
foreground tasks, like your game, for
example, 100% of the resources. So,
simply double click on system
responsiveness and set that value to
zero. And to finish things up, we're
going to do a very simple BIOS tweak,
enabling
XMP/DOCCP. Just check your RAM
information online or in the manual to
make sure it supports XMPP or DOCP. To
get into your BIOS, just restart your PC
and spam the delete key or F2. In the
BIOS, you should be able to find the XMP
or DOCP option right in front of you.
It's going to be slightly different for
everyone as we're not all going to have
the same exact motherboard. Anyways, set
it to enabled or profile one. This
allows your RAM to run at its advertised
speed. This covers the vast majority of
the optimizations I've done to my PC.
And if you're looking for even more
performance boost, check out my full
optimization playlist next.
[Music]